Add Getting Started tutorials (#2808)
surveyjs/survey-creator: docs/get-started-angular.md

- [Install the `survey-creator-knockout` npm Package](#install-the-survey-creator-knockout-npm-package)
- [Configure Styles](#configure-styles)
- [Configure Survey Creator](#configure-survey-creator)
- [Render Survey Creator](#render-survey-creator)
- [Save and Load Survey Model Definitions](#save-and-load-survey-model-definitions)

You can find the full code for this tutorial in the following GitHub repository: <a href="https://github.com/surveyjs/code-examples/tree/main/get-started-creator-angular" target="_blank">Get Started with Survey Creator / Form Builder - Angular</a>.

## Install the `survey-creator-knockout` npm Package

Survey Creator does not yet have a native implementation for Angular. However, you can integrate the version for Knockout into your Angular application. Run the following command to install the <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/survey-creator-knockout" target="_blank">survey-creator-knockout</a> package:

```cmd
npm install survey-creator-knockout --save
```

## Configure Styles

> Open the `angular.json` file and reference Survey Creator and SurveyJS Library style sheets as shown below. Note that although SurveyJS Library supports [different UI themes](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=get-started-angular#configure-styles), Survey Creator can use only the Default V2 theme:

Author: Survey Creator is used to configure surveys. While being configured, a survey can be displayed in the Default V2 theme only, although we ship other themes too. Afterward the configuration, the result (a JSON object) can be used with any other theme.

```suggestion
Open the `angular.json` file and reference Survey Creator and SurveyJS Library style sheets as shown below. Note that although standalone surveys support [multiple predefined themes](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=get-started-angular#configure-styles), surveys within Survey Creator apply only one theme ("Default V2"). However, you can use the survey configuration (JSON object) produced by Survey Creator to build a standalone survey and apply any theme to it.
```

> Open the `angular.json` file and reference Survey Creator and SurveyJS Library style sheets as shown below. Note that although SurveyJS Library supports [different UI themes](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=get-started-angular#configure-styles), Survey Creator can use only the Default V2 theme:

Reviewer: Our website includes a "Custom Theme" demo for the Survey Creator. So it looks to me that we offer a way to customize how the Creator looks when integrated into my/your app. Maybe you can't apply a whole different theme, but you can certainly customize colors. And style changes affect the questions themselves, if I choose "Test Survey".  

https://surveyjs.io/Examples/Survey-Creator?id=editor-custom-theme&platform=ReactjsV2&theme=defaultV2

So maybe there's only one pre-defined theme available, but developers can customize it. That's what I wanted to emphasize. (Am I still wrong? :-) )

The demo application lists one more module next to that one - "[Customize Survey Creator theme using CSS variables](https://surveyjs.io/Examples/Survey-Creator?id=editor-custom-theme-css-vars&theme=bootstrap)".

import { SurveyCreator } from "survey-creator-knockout";

const creatorOptions = {
  showLogicTab: true,
  isAutoSave: true
};

@Component({
  selector: 'survey-creator',
  templateUrl: './survey-creator.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./survey-creator.component.css']
})
export class SurveyCreatorComponent implements OnInit {
  ngOnInit() {
    const creator = new SurveyCreator(creatorOptions);
    creator.render("surveyCreator");
  }
}
```

```css
#surveyCreator {
    height: 100vh;
    width: 100vw;
}
```
</details>

## Save and Load Survey Model Definitions

Survey Creator is designed to produce survey model definitions as JSON objects. You can save these objects on your server and load them from it. To save a JSON object, implement the `saveSurveyFunc` function. It accepts two arguments:

- `saveNo`      
An incremental number of the current change. Because web services are asynchronous, you cannot guarantee that the change that came to the service last is the latest. For example, change #11 may precede change #10. In your web service code, compare `saveNo` of the coming change with `saveNo` of the saved change to decide whether to override the latter.

- `callback`        

> A callback function that should be called after the current change is saved or rejected. Pass `saveNo` as the first argument. The second argument should be `true` if the change was successfully saved or `false` if the change was rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A callback function. Call it and pass `saveNo` as the first argument. Set the second argument to `true` or `false` based on whether the server applied or rejected the change.
```

```cmd
npm install survey-creator-knockout --save
```

## Configure Styles

Open the `angular.json` file and reference Survey Creator and SurveyJS Library style sheets:

```js
{
  "$schema": "./node_modules/@angular/cli/lib/config/schema.json",
  // ...
  "projects": {
    "project-name": {
      "projectType": "application",
      // ...
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          // ...
          "options": {
            // ...
            "styles": [
              "src/styles.css",
              "node_modules/survey-core/defaultV2.min.css",
              "node_modules/survey-creator-core/survey-creator-core.min.css"
            ],
            // ...
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Note that although standalone surveys support [multiple predefined themes](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=get-started-angular#configure-styles), surveys within Survey Creator apply only one theme ("Default V2"). However, you can use the survey configuration (JSON object) produced by Survey Creator to build a standalone survey and apply any theme to it. You can also customize Survey Creator theme colors as shown in the following example:

> [View Customize Theme Using CSS Variables example](https://surveyjs.io/Examples/Survey-Creator?id=editor-custom-theme-css-vars)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[View "Custom Theme Using CSS Variables" example](https://surveyjs.io/Examples/Survey-Creator?id=editor-custom-theme-css-vars)
```

```js
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { SurveyCreator } from "survey-creator-knockout";

@Component({
  selector: 'survey-creator',
  templateUrl: './survey-creator.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./survey-creator.component.css']
})
export class SurveyCreatorComponent implements OnInit {
  ngOnInit() {
    const creator = new SurveyCreator(creatorOptions);
  }
}
```

<details>
  <summary>View full code</summary>

```js
import { Component, OnInit } from "@angular/core";
import { SurveyCreator } from "survey-creator-knockout";

const creatorOptions = {
  showLogicTab: true,
  isAutoSave: true
};

@Component({
  selector: 'survey-creator',
  templateUrl: './survey-creator.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./survey-creator.component.css']
})
export class SurveyCreatorComponent implements OnInit {
  ngOnInit() {
    const creator = new SurveyCreator(creatorOptions);
  }
}
```
</details>

## Render Survey Creator

Switch to the component template. Add a page element that will serve as the Survey Creator container:

```html
<div id="surveyCreator"></div>
```

```css
#surveyCreator {
    height: 100vh;
    width: 100vw;
}
```

> To render Survey Creator in the page element, call the `render(containerId)` method on the Survey Creator instance you created in the previous step:

Reviewer 2: Is "on the Survey Creator instance" correct, or do you mean "in the Survey Creator instance"?

Author: https://www.quora.com/What-does-it-mean-to-call-a-method-upon-an-object/answer/Steven-2225

I know it's just a user answer, but its the best explanation I found.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification, Roman.

The following code shows how to use the `saveSurveyFunc` function to save a survey model definition in a <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage" target="_blank">`localStorage`</a> or in your web service:

```js
// ...
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class SurveyCreatorComponent implements OnInit {
  ngOnInit() {
    // ...
    creator.saveSurveyFunc = (saveNo: number, callback: Function) => { 
      // If you use localStorage:
      window.localStorage.setItem("survey-json", creator.text);
      callback(saveNo, true);

      // If you use a web service:
      saveSurveyJson(
          "https://your-web-service.com/",
          creator.JSON,
          saveNo,
          callback
      );
    };
    // ...
  }
}

// If you use a web service:
function saveSurveyJson(url, json, saveNo, callback) {
  const request = new XMLHttpRequest();
  request.open('POST', url);
  request.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json;charset=UTF-8');
  request.addEventListener('load', () => {
      callback(saveNo, true);
  });
  request.addEventListener('error', () => {
      callback(saveNo, false);
  });
  request.send(JSON.stringify(json));
}
```

> To load a survey model definition JSON into Survey Creator, assign the definition to Survey Creator's [`JSON`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#JSON) or [`text`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#text) property. Use `text` if the JSON object is converted to string; otherwise, use `JSON`. The following code takes a survey model definition from the `localStorage`. If the definition is not found (for example, when Survey Creator is launched for the first time), a default JSON is used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To load a survey model definition JSON into Survey Creator, assign the definition to Survey Creator's [`JSON`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#JSON) or [`text`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#text) property. Use `text` if the JSON object is converted to a string; otherwise, use `JSON`. The following code takes a survey model definition from the `localStorage`. If the definition is not found (for example, when Survey Creator is launched for the first time), a default JSON is used:
```
